I can recognize that a lot of their
protests a lot of their political
movements have been just trying to get
attention and there's a terrible
hollowness to that even when you really
sympathize with the cause and what does
it draw attention to it simply draws
attention the fact there is a problem
and I think this is a classic case of
the cart before the horse the chicken
versus the egg people tend to engage in
these protests in these
attention-getting behaviors at a stage
when all they want to do is scream from
the rooftops scream in the face of
public and difference there is a problem
and I think implicitly they assume if
more people knew simply by knowing
simplify getting the attention the
government would solve the problem or
ordinary people would rise up out of the
seasons of the problem and the reality
is that's not when you should engage in
protest that's not what you gauge in
these these kinds of agitprop public
education outreach they're in various
forms of outreach and publication
behavior I think the reality is you only
take that step when you're not drawing
attention to the problem but when you're
drawing attention to the solution this
video is about the contrast between
getting attention and building a
meaningful movement we're talking about
the vegan movement the future the vegan
movement this really builds on the video
uploaded earlier today case you can
guess the Sun is now set recording it's
quite a few hours later put in the same
day in that earlier video I discussed
the fact that there is horrid social
science research inquiring into the
question of how effective or how
ineffective it may be to simply hand out
pamphlets to people if you're trying to
promote an idea that says new and
unfamiliar and challenging to people's
values and received opinions as veganism
right handing out pamphlets for veganism
is not the same thing as handing out
pamphlets for a new brand of shampoo
you're not really asking people to
sacrifice anything to try a new brand of
shampoo they're already buying shampoo
and you're just trying to get them
interested
constructing something slightly
different that might be a little bit
better or might be a little bit cheaper
or might be better for their health
whatever your sales pitch is for the
shampoo you're promoting right veganism
is very fundamentally different that
you're asking people to read this
pamphlet and then look at their own
grandparents and say you were wrong
everything you taught me was wrong
everything you taught me about what
being healthy means grandpa was wrong
and for most of us that's true a tiny
percentage of vegans alive today had
vegan grandparents most of us grew up
with our grandparents really trying to
instill in us values about how we treat
animals but how we treat human beings
and indeed about our diet and health
that we now have to recognize as wrong
both in the sense of being incorrect
misleading but ill informed bad girl and
morally wrong immoral right that's
that's a big turning point for my
personal lives and this channel other
many many videos talking about the agony
of activism so to speak right but this
is not the kind of turning point people
often make in response to a pamphlet
whereas trying a new brand of shampoo
maybe if there's been a huge amount of
social science research into how
effective Pam floating is and promoting
new products there are all kinds of
industries are interested in answering
that question and measuring that outcome
because they're spending money trying to
make money handing out pamphlets right
so I've already provide an article
inquiring into the hard science the hard
factual basis for whether or not any
okay amplitudes waste of time I'm going
to kick off this video really is a segue
into this topic but just appealing to
your common sense for a minute here if
I'm giving you a pamphlet for a live
music event for a festival for a concert
let's say a rapper is coming to town Lil
B is coming to Halifax low B is coming
to Vancouver okay Victoria let's a
smaller town ok if you take that
pamphlet what kind of person is going to
respond positively to that pamphlet and
make the decision which is a relatively
trivial casual decision to spend some
time and money coming up to hear a lot
of music event who is going to pick up
that pamphlet and say oh little B I've
never heard of them I've never heard of
this artist before what why should i
come this comment
that person is not going to even make
the commitment although trivial to go
and hear this live act right somebody
gets the pamphlet and looks at it says
rap music what's rap music or look at
that one says Lil B sorry is that a
country musician who what kind of music
is you play this is this dance hall is
this reggae a simple someone who is at
that level of totally lacking
familiarity with the concept of what
you're presenting them with in a sense
that pamphlet is a wasted pamphlet now
somebody else might take the pamphlet
and immediately they see the name and
they think of a song they already have
something associated with it in their
mind that may be positive may be
negative oh yeah I've heard this guy
before I've heard of this guy I've heard
his music I know what kind of genre he
thinks I know what kind of crowd is
going to be there I know socially what
kind of seen this is going to be all
right that person when you give them the
pamphlet they may or may not get curious
but at least it's an option than my
future 20 on Saturday I might be
interested in so maybe there's a little
bit in the same way when we're talking
about the effectiveness of pamphlet in
education outreach in my former video
earlier today I talked about the fact
that an incredibly small percentage of
the people who tuned to give Gant
pamphlets are going to react positively
but it's also true that all the people
who react positively a very very small
percentage of the decision is going to
be made by that pamphlet right if you
look at any major life decision
religious groups hand out pamphlets they
convert to this religion it's both the
case that a very very small percentage
of people they get pamphlet still make
that decision but all the people who do
do you really think the pamphlet was
decisive is you really think the painful
with ninety percent of the information
that went into making that decision I
think they took that pamphlet and then
did a lot of soul searching God's what
starts the information talked to some of
their friends and relatives whatever the
process is and again that's real social
science research whether you do it under
anthropology or political science you
can talk to people to join cults or join
new religions people who convert and D
convert and
what was the process that went into
making the decision a pamphlet might be
part of the process but I think in every
single case it's a small part haha and
III did I knew one guy who became
vegetarian not vegan because he was
handed a pamphlet and read it but still
I do think there's there's a lot more to
that and you sit downs are some of that
all kinds of things come out their
childhood experiences concerns they'd
had long before they'd seen that
pamphlet and things they looked into and
read about after they got to pamphlet
this is this is human reality okay
getting attention is not a bad thing in
itself I think the problem is that we're
looking at so many social movements or
aspiring social movements and veganism
we're getting attention has become the
entire focus and purpose of the group
the group is designed for and spends all
their time and energy just trying to get
attention and in some cases because of
that research this now right about is
fair a bit in some cases I do think that
the groups are doing that because they
they sincerely believe that all it takes
is getting someone's attention all it
takes is handing them a pathway to
change their lives forever and that's a
kind of missionary zeal that's i mean
you know i'm not saying this to hate on
them in some ways that's kind of sweet
and touching that they really believe
that if only these people knew what I
know if only they found out about
veganism from somebody handing them a
pamphlet explaining these these basic
facts then they would change their whole
lives forever in an instant in a
heartbeat you know that's that is one
element of it I do think there's a more
cynical element of people who are
chasing Fame and chasing money and you
know money is not evil but they're
thinking if only we could get on the
news then the whole bunch of donations
would come in and definitely I mean even
again you look at a group like direct
action everywhere why is it that they so
desperately wants to be on the TV news
whether it's good or bad is it a desire
for fame is it a desire for notoriety do
they think that by getting arrested feel
what what good is going to come out of
that being on the TV news for 30
or is it getting donations some of the
people some as I say really sincerely
believe that all it takes is getting
someone's attention like appearing on
the news giving them a pamphlet to spark
that radical ethical change lifestyle
change and have someone converts
veganism so there is something that
going on it's not all famewhoring and I
say also you know I'm not perfect we
talking about how ineffective pamphlets
are I'm now putting time and money into
creating a storybook above these of
storybooks for children a book that
parents can sit down and read to kids
now in the same way that I've just
talked you through who can really
respond positive that pamphlet only
somebody who has some some prior
positive Association they see the
pamphlet they see the name of the artist
they know the music or they know
something about the music they've heard
it they've heard of it in the same way I
think you can really say my storybook I
put a lot of effort I wrote it in
Chinese translating to English other
people translated in German and Russian
could be a great project now got an
artist unlock we're going to illustrate
this and publish it okay even I it's
going to be beautiful already the story
is beautiful the illustrator does great
work I've posted her Instagram before
Scott drawings out okay but I think it's
still is susceptible the same criticism
if you show that storybook someone if
you read it to someone a child or an
adult or what have you it can only
really have a positive outcome for
someone who already has some kind of
positive associations some kind of prior
knowledge or just some prior reason to
be curious where they think Oh veganism
I want to know more about that you give
someone the pamphlet for a rock concert
for a hip-hop concert Oh little bee I
want to hear more of his stuff I've
heard some of the songs I wanted to or I
want to know what one of us cause or
whatever else is going to show up maybe
if you're addressing the other people
are going to be their doctors the music
whatever the reason is there has to be
already some sincere engagement that
leads to curiosity here
he leads to inquiry the inquiry leads
ultimately to action to some kind of
engagement one make the world a better
place one to want to change your own
life and I've mentioned this before so
my father who's now deceased haven't yet
made a video talking about that but you
know one of the very few I think
original ideas my father tried to
impress on me was the difference between
learning and attitude and an attitude
can include just appreciation for
something appreciation for some types as
opposed to learning facts factual
learning and my father pointed out you
have huge government projects public
education projects and museums costing
millions of dollars where sometimes the
only message they're trying to get
across is like this period of history
exists these people exist like the
government wants to appreciate there
used to be native people who lived here
and now they're extinct and this is who
they were and this is you know they
didn't just live in a tent they lived in
a they lived in these kinds of buildings
there weren't just 10 or 20 of them this
is the total population this is you know
home this is the story of how they
disappeared and face the earth most
people i mean again the obviously i'm
alluding to real examples here where
governments are trying to kind of do
right by people have been exterminated
by european colonialism more or other
colonialism missile he is not European
colonialism as the case may be where
they know people are going to come and
see this or they're going to get this
message through propaganda through
public education through museum programs
or what-have-you Museum outrage and the
only thing they're really going to walk
away with is a vague appreciation that
these historical events happen at all
that these people exist is 0 and a tiny
minority their audience is going to have
a curiosity the engagement of the
interest to really dig into the facts oh
what century did that happen Oh what
period is that artifact from hope
there's no point in designing your
message or delivering your message in a
way that presumes your audience is
populated by specialists you can imagine
this is a huge problem with some like a
music
project or a public education project
because most the experts you're
employing our career academics and
they're used to going to an academic
conference where they present their
findings to a tiny tiny audience of
people who are specialized interest
saying no that's not what we're doing
here we have to learn how to present
this history to an audience that's
completely ignorant and completely
indifferent right so you see what I
mentioned this this is like presenting a
pamphlet to someone who's never even
heard of veganism presenting a pamphlet
of someone who's never even heard of
will be they've never even heard of rap
music but these are the kinds of
questions we we get into okay um so
getting attention in and of itself is
not evil however I do see the extent to
which it seems to warp the standards and
practices of many of the aspiring
leaders in the vegan movement put it
that way direct action everywhere I see
much of what they have done in the past
as really being warped by a mad desire
to get coverage on TV and they didn't
care if the coverage was good or bad
positive or negative and they proudly
would post you know clips oh we got on
channel 7 news and you know the fact
that the news broadcaster is saying a
bunch of idiots stood up in a whole
foods market and you know weeping and
screaming protest to the fact that whole
foods is selling turkeys on Thanksgiving
just like they did last Thanksgiving
just if your next Thanksgiving you know
it's kind of theatrical highly emotional
you know disruptive protests the there's
no interest in what the reception is by
the channel what the perception the
audience is they run out onto the field
at a baseball game and there hold off
the field in 30 seconds they just want
the attention is so it's interesting I
don't think seeking attention is is
negative in and of itself but it is
interesting to me how that can have a
kind of corrosive effect and what your
whole organization is doing and one of
the corrosive effects is simply that it
forces you into short-term thinking
chasing headlines instead of building a
meaningful movement worrying about
meaningful engagement public education
outreach and even your finances even
building trust
with your donors where they're giving
you money and they really understand
what kind of outcomes that money is
having because ultimately none of these
foundations can operate within money
none of them live on air and water alone
lifestyle activism of many many videos
now most of more than a year ago I don't
think it's evil to put on a bikini if
you look beautiful and there's anything
wrong with capitalizing on your beauty
but again across the board we've seen
mixed messages within veganism that
mixed you know lifestyle beauty weight
loss etc and really came up that well
they basically their program got warped
to use the same term it was using before
there they went into a sort of dead
ended and fruitless pursuit of vanity
and you know instagram followers and
what have you and I think I mean this is
almost a universal rule at this point I
noticed dr. mcdougall a condom guys
first name the starch the starch based
solution guy you know put the starch
solution that MacDougall john mcdougall
he he tried to get a he tried to get a
beauty and lifestyle magazine going I
mean obvious he was only one of the
people in the board directors it wasn't
it wasn't you know editor and chief or
anything we could see some funny funny
outliers with that you can see some
funny examples where you know legit
vegan activists or medical professionals
decide they're going to try to do
something with bikinis and beaches and
and people living the good life and then
you look at at the end and say and what
did this magazine accomplish she took
donors money and print of this magazine
and one other what are the real outcomes
there may be worse maybe less than
anything healthy the path looks right
and appointed for several times in in
skype conversations or the vegans I've
mentioned them how enormous Pettis
budget is for the magazine people
difficult reitman animals and when you
look at their justification their budget
publishing that magazine is a huge part
of it they have a multi-million dollar
magazine
feta and Assam have you ever seen the
magazine look have you seen it around
have you seen it in a dentist's office
have you seen it at a friends apartments
because like most of their vegan our
other friends how are you getting on I
mean like have you ever seen this
magazine sitting around and their answer
is no and then I asked them well look if
I gave you just three million dollars a
year what do you think you could put to
get there so again i mean i'm using
example some are headline-grabbing and
some i mean i guess these magazines
whether it's McDougal's magazine or pet
is magazine i guess the point is to sit
there on a grocery store shelf but the
real outcomes are dubious to get
lifestyle activism the reason why people
get trapped in it i do think is this
issue of getting attention as soon as
your organization whether that's five
people making a social media presence
after lifestyle activism or 50 people
making a magazine review i think as soon
as you're chasing that short-term thrill
of we got 10,000 thumbs up on this
whatever whether it's instagram post or
a video what have you i think that
becomes profoundly distorted and maybe
you did start off with the mixed message
where you say okay we're going to we're
going to promote ethical veganism and a
certain kind of diet and you're going to
put together this total package but the
question of what actually gets rewarded
what actually gets attention if with
your purpose is to get mentioned whether
you're conscious of it or not you may be
measuring short-term success in terms of
attention I think again almost
universally I can't think of any example
of a hybrid you know lifestyle activism
approach that has been successful or
that is even stayed on topic they've all
really quickly kind of straight away
from their original purpose and
disintegrated and may I guess you know
the ultimate example of this is Petitte
so people with ethical treatment of
animals in the last I did an hour long
video with mod vegan and we talked a lot
about Petta but the main purposes it's a
review of the the final book from Gary
Franchione a it refused to pronounce his
name Francie owned by the way it's a
terrible as resolution I'm half this
rounded front coa but don't come on come
on bro
I'm a member of the club of people who
have names that are hard to pronounce
but come on Francie ohne it's not
Francie own but I digress anyway in that
hour long video with mod vegan will you
talk a lot about fed up and you know
their actions we have to give the pet
accredit for but we forget and we forget
partly because they had this mix
lifestyle I could have approached a lot
of their stuff has been women in bikinis
it's been you know these sexy photos and
so on and they'll got they got attention
I think they also destroyed Pettis
credibility in the movement to a large
extent to instead to which most of us
just don't think about it I don't I mean
I just say I don't hate pornography I
don't hate a bikini models I really
don't but when you're talking about in
your mind some oh yeah but you know
pedda did this other project that was
really significant they did this other
thing feel like oh yeah right but you
really gotta dig you really forget you
forget about things you can give them
credit for they have this enormous
budget and what you see maybe what you
see is not what you get but what you see
is the attention-seeking short-term
thinking headline-grabbing activities it
does indeed include you know bikinis and
half-naked women saying they'd rather be
naked than wear fur you guys probably
remember those campaigns and that's
become what we think of when we think of
petta i don't know if they'll ever dig
themselves out of a hole in that all
that women it naked women in the streets
covered with fake blood it is what it is
I'm saying this load the humility I'm
not going to tell you petta has nothing
to offer the future of veganism they
have such a huge budget in many ways
they still have a lot to offer it's
still a lot we're thinking about but
again I can't think of any exception of
the rule we can look at that mixture of
lifestyle activism and real advocacy and
call it a success and I think this is
the reason why is the short term
attention-getting behavior okay so look
I'm challenging myself here by now using
a couple of examples where I really do
sympathize with the cause of all
I simple there's a lot with the
struggles of First Nations people in
Canada First Nations AKA american
indians AKA aboriginal or indigenous
people in canada decree the egyptian
Mohawks etc etc um I don't you
sympathize that a lot I decided at one
point to devote the rest of my life to
working on language education and
language extinction issues and I
enrolled at First Nations University and
started learning Korean a jib way native
languages you can ok since I assume this
is a lot however I can recognize that a
lot of their protests a lot of their
political movements have been just
trying to get attention and there's a
terrible hollowness to that even when
you really sympathize with the cause
because you see people are sticking the
next out and then be doing great as
agitprop agitation and propaganda I've
been to protest that were beautiful and
I had native musicians playing the drums
and chanting and you know they do get on
TV news whatever the particular cause
maybe at the time of attendance and
protest like that and it can be
beautiful and moving and it seems
meaningful but once they've got the
attention what can you do with it very
often the only message that gets across
is first nations are still unhappy there
so Clark Davis so far testing something
and to give another so that that's an
issue that has tremendous longevity
built into it most people are committed
to First Nations politics can't quit
some of them if they do it as a job that
can never get any other job they're
locked in as activists for life at other
people they're simply born with that
racial identity in Canada and they're
attached to those politics like they
have they have no choice even if they
might like to move on and that's a big
difference from veganism it's a big
different in the movements so the second
example is want to kick out here why I
sympathize i've seen many many different
protest movements in canada and europe
and elsewhere on the question of tuition
fees rising tuition fees and whether or
not the government should intervene and
how you should actually regulate the
amount that university students have to
pay for tuition so I sympathize
tremendously and that's the opposite in
this respect one of the problems that
movement is that most people are only
interested for a couple of years
and then they lose interest she have a
constantly shifting and unsteady group
of supporters right people are
interested for a little while and they
lose interest in move on ah I've seen
some brilliant attempts at protests and
simply organizing a movement under both
headings First Nations and lower tuition
fees or fighting against increasing
tuition fees there have been some
brilliant and inspiring examples is one
example from England where I remember
this guy giving the interview and
thought wow he's a really rare example
of a guy's got his head screwed on
straight he's got some great ideas but I
can only say that those movements
succeeded in getting attention and what
does it draw attention to it simply
draws attention the fact there is a
problem and I think this is a classic
case of the cart before the horse the
chicken versus the egg people tend to
engage in these protests in these
attention-getting behaviors at a stage
when all they want to do is scream from
the rooftops scream in the face of
public indifference there is a problem
and implicitly they assume if more
people knew simply by knowing simplify
getting the attention the government
would solve the problem or ordinary
people would rise up out of their seats
and solve the problem and the reality is
that's not when you should engage in
protest that's not what you gauge in
these these kinds of agitprop public
education outreach they're in various
forms of outreach and publication
behavior I think the reality is you only
take that step when you're not drawing
attention to the problem but when you're
drawing attention to the solution all
right and when you have a solution it
disciplines the whole group they
completely fundamentally different way
all right if you just have a bunch of
students who want to complain the
tuition is too high that's an amorphous
and undefined group if you have a group
of students whose okay this is our
solution here's our solution we want to
switch tuition to be a percentage of
your income after you graduate so after
you
scituate you're going to pay five
percent of your income to the University
every year until you've paid back the
amount of tuition so if you graduate
from university and you become a poet
maybe a very low salary but five percent
of that is going back and maybe it takes
you 50 years to pay back your tuition
fee but that's fine if you finish
University and you become a lawyer even
a lot of money five percent very rapidly
maybe you pay back situation the vast
majority of lawyers in Canada earned
shockingly little money spent away it's
a bad example lawyers and a lot less
money in Canada than you might think
they do especially for the first 10
years of the career by the way that's
another story okay so that's the plan
now i'm not talking about protesting the
problem I'm talking about protesting for
a solution not against the problem
before solution and now how much things
are going to happen now instead of
having a totally undefined group of
students some of them are left-wing some
of them are right-wing they're just
they're just the only thing they have in
common is that they're discontent about
tuition be too high now you're actually
putting together group of students who
have to ask themselves those challenging
questions is this the solution is this
the plan we're going to propose and now
you have a plan that you can take to
Parliament's to Senate the Congress
wherever you live you can take the
political system you can take to the
political parties you can take to the
university chancellor and say look we're
not trying to take away money from you
we're not trying to bankrupt the
university what we want is for the
government to enable a different style
of payment plan and the university is
still going to make money and it's still
going to flourish and it's still going
to be academic freedom but this is going
to enable students to make more diverse
career choices after they finish
University because they're not facing
crushing student debt the minute they
stopped attending class which in Canada
is our system by the way the minute you
stop attending class you have to pay
back your student loans and it is not as
a percentage of your income it's an
absolute amount of money I assume in
America it's even worse I don't really
know I'm not American um and again with
First Nations it's easy you could have a
totally amorphous broad-based group when
you're protesting just for the problem
against the probably just try to get
attention for the problem when you have
a particular solution Sookie this is our
plan this is our plan for how we want to
solve whether it's a land ownership
issue or a water quality issue there are
ton of those of the first nations just
getting access to drain water or how the
education system first nations or
doesn't funded or you want to reform
corruption within First Nations
government this is the plan we're going
to propose and we're going to protest
for now who's with me and this is the
last thing I want to say in this video
the greatest irony is that veganism
really is a solution not a problem and
yet I think we haven't taken advantage
of this what I see across the board are
protests against fur milk meat you name
it protesting again I can sympathize
emotionally protest that want to scream
from the rooftops scream in the face of
public and difference about our terrible
a given situation in but the reality is
we need to move forward into organizing
a meaningful movement that is not
designed to get attention I think that
works everything you're doing in the
movement as with all these examples I've
given you need to move forward to being
a movement that is argued that is
arguing for and working for the solution
and is not defined in terms of the
problem and it's not defined in terms of
mere of merely attracting public
attention to the problem again I'm not
hitting on people for doing it I think
that for many of us the turning point is
when we realize that drawing someone's
attention to this for the vast majority
of people is just as meaningless as
giving them a pamphlet for type of music
they've never heard of before they're
not going to turn that corner even for
something as trivial as going to hear a
concert for type of music in a musician
that they it just means nothing ok and
the type of personal sacrifice
commitment engagement and again even
cultural change looking back at your own
grandparents looking back at the
traditions at your own family in your
own religion your own culture
and suddenly seeing that as 10,000 years
of error that's a that's a huge hurdle
and what all of us need to do I think
first and foremost is make better use of
the human resources we've got of the
people who have already gone over that
hurdle and again start promoting the
system as a solution stop designing
movements and outreach campaigns and
protests that are merely about drawing
attention to the problem if you're vegan
it's easy to lose sight of how
completely meaningless that is to
ninety-five percent of the population
when you put that pamphlet in their face